Basic #LoadBalancer understanding:
A load balancer acts as the “traffic cop” sitting in front of your servers and routing client requests across all 
servers capable of fulfilling those requests in a manner that maximizes speed and capacity utilization and ensures
that no one server is overworked, which could degrade performance. If a single server goes down, the load balancer
redirects traffic to the remaining online servers. When a new server is added to the server group, the load balancer 
automatically starts to send requests to it.

>> Maximize server throughput and minimize Latency
>> handle the requests by scaling the system

A single server has limited resources and limited throughput to accomodate requests from all clients. This may cause the server to overload and cause slowness and failure.

To handle this we typically scale the system: 
1. vertical scaling - increasing the power of server. 
 An increase in resources is limited.
2. horiztontal scaling - popular option
- Add more machines or servers to the system, three servers instead of one, a lot more requests can be handled from clients. 
- must ensure that requests are being processed by the server in a balanced way.

Client >>>> Load Balancer >>>>> Server 
- Load Balancer is basically another server that sits between client and server to balance the load and requests from client to the servers. 
- Redirect clients requests to servers in balanced way
- Balance workloads
- Maintain even distribution 
- Main purpose is to redirect the requests in a balanced way so that none of the singles server is overloaded with requests from clients.

Horizontal scaling > add servers > load balancer will make use of new resources to improve the overall throughput > reduced latency

Reverse Proxy - Load balancers can also work on behalf of the clients or servers 
Not limited to clients or servers
LB can be in setup in between 
Server >>>>> Database 
Server >>>>> other servers
DNS Load Balancer at the DNS layer of the website (e.g. dns query from browser will request the DNS LB to process the request and return the website)

Software load balancers - cheap and highly customizable

Server Selection Strategy
> ROUND ROBIN - goes through all the servers in a loop for even distribution of load amongst all servers
Customized Round Robin is called Weighted Round Robin where one powerful server is given more load and redirected to other servers
> Server Traffic - balancing load based on traffice being served by the server 
LB pings the server to check the health and based on server speed response and resources and decides if or not to redirect traffic to those servers
>IP Based - gets request from the clients and hashes # the ip address so specific server is serving a specific client
useful when servers are caching.

Based on need and situation
It is possible to use Multiple Load Balancers with different server selection strategies.

#PROXIES VS REVERSE PROXY
> Proxy server - is the server acting as a gatekeeper between the private network and the public internet.
Forward proxy server - acts as a guardian/gatekeeper safeguarding the network by reguating traffic blocking harmful websites, masking client IP addresses, 
logging user activity, bypassing content restrictions and commonly used for web data collection. 
* Benefits of Forward proxy servers
- Logs user activity
- logs what websites were visited by clients
- keeps track of what websites were visited and how long were they on those websites.
- bypass restricted contents. e.g. for schools and governments restrict some websites.
- improved speed by caching copies of websites frequently used. 

> Reverse Proxy - regulates the traffic coming to the network. enhances security for servers by hiding their IP addresses, blocking malicious traffic, 
and implementing load balancing to distribute traffic evenly.


